---
title: The Epistle of Ignatius to the Trallians
layout: book
author: Ignatius of Antioch
permalink: authors/ignatius-of-antioch/:name
---

## Introduction

Ignatius, who is also called Theophorus, to the holy Church which is at Tralles,
in Asia, beloved of God, the Father of Jesus Christ, elect, and worthy of God,
possessing peace through the flesh, and blood, and passion of Jesus Christ, who
is our hope, through our rising again to Him, which also I salute in its
fulness, and in the apostolical character, and wish abundance of happiness.

## Chapter 1 - Acknowledgment of their excellence

I know that you possess a blameless and sincere mind in patience, and that not
only in present circumstances, but that you have been always of the same
disposition, as is shown by your bishop, Polybius, who has come by the will of
God and Jesus Christ to Smyrna, and has so largely shared in my joy in my bonds
for Jesus Christ, that I beheld your whole multitude in him. Receiving,
therefore, your good-will in him, I have begun to think of you as I do of
myself, and to love you as my own soul. For I know that you are not puffed up,
but are humble, and that you are not ashamed to confess your faith in Christ,
but are ready to suffer for His name. I exhort you, therefore, to be of one
mind, and to be subject to the bishop, as to the grace of God, and to the
presbytery, as to the law of Jesus Christ, and to the deacons, as to the
ministers of the mysteries of Jesus Christ. For they are not the ministers of
meat and drink, but of the Church of God. They are bound, therefore, to avoid
all grounds of accusation against them, as they would do fire.

## Chapter 2 - Subject to the bishop, etc.

For since you are subject to the bishop as to Jesus Christ, you appear to me to
live not after the manner of men, but according to Jesus Christ, who died for
us, in order that, by believing in His death, you may escape from death. It is
therefore necessary, as you do, that you should do nothing without the bishop;
but be ye subject also to the presbytery, as to the apostles of Jesus Christ,
who is our hope, in whom, if we live, we shall be found in Him. It is meet also
that the deacons, the ministers of the mysteries of Jesus Christ, should in all
things be pleasing to all. For they are not the ministers of meat and drink, but
of the Church of God. They are bound, therefore, to avoid all grounds of
accusation against them, as they would do fire.

## Chapter 3 - Honour the deacons, etc.

Let all, then, reverence the deacons as Jesus Christ, and the bishop as the
Father, and the presbyters as the sanhedrim of God, and assembly of the
apostles. Apart from these there is no Church. Concerning all which I am
persuaded that ye are of the same mind. For I have received the manifestation of
your love, and have it with me in the person of your bishop. For his very
appearance is instructive, and his meekness is his power. Whom I imagine the
very ungodly must reverence, seeing they are also pleased that I do not spare
myself. For why should I, that I may be able to write to you of heavenly things?
But I fear lest I should do you an injury. For I am afraid of your love, lest it
should do me an injury. For it is easy for any one to think that he can, but it
is difficult for him to attain to God.

## Chapter 4 - I have need of humility

I have need of humility, for I am not yet perfect. But I hope that I shall be
found worthy, if I attain to God. For I am not afraid of the wild beasts, but I
welcome them; and I pray that they may be found eager to rush upon me. And if
they are unwilling, I will compel them. Come, fire and cross, and grapplings
with wild beasts, hewings and tearings, wrenching of bones, mangling of limbs,
crushing of my whole body, let the evil tortures of the devil come upon me: only
let me attain to Jesus Christ.

## Chapter 5 - I will not teach you profound doctrines

I will not teach you profound doctrines, for I am not yet perfect. But I hope
that I shall be found worthy, if I attain to God. For I am not afraid of the
wild beasts, but I welcome them; and I pray that they may be found eager to rush
upon me. And if they are unwilling, I will compel them. Come, fire and cross,
and grapplings with wild beasts, hewings and tearings, wrenching of bones,
mangling of limbs, crushing of my whole body, let the evil tortures of the devil
come upon me: only let me attain to Jesus Christ.

## Chapter 6 - Abstain from the poison of heretics

Abstain from the poison of heretics, which is a deadly drug mixed in sweet wine.
For they are not the planting of the Father, but are the offshoots of the devil.
They are wolves in sheep's clothing, who bite secretly, against whom you must be
on your guard, inasmuch as they are men who can scarcely be cured. There is one
Physician who is possessed both of flesh and spirit; both made and not made; God
existing in flesh; true life in death; both of Mary and of God; first possible
and then impossible, even Jesus Christ our Lord.

## Chapter 7 - The same continued

Be on your guard against the snares of the devil, and renew yourselves in faith
and love, and avoid grudges. For the devil is a liar, and the father of lies,
and he seeks to devour you. But you are the children of God, and you are strong
in faith. Therefore, resist the devil, and he will flee from you. Draw near to
God, and He will draw near to you. Cleanse your hands, you sinners; and purify
your hearts, you double-minded. Humble yourselves in the sight of the Lord, and
He shall lift you up.

## Chapter 8 - Be on your guard against the snares of the devil

Be on your guard against the snares of the devil, and renew yourselves in faith
and love, and avoid grudges. For the devil is a liar, and the father of lies,
and he seeks to devour you. But you are the children of God, and you are strong
in faith. Therefore, resist the devil, and he will flee from you. Draw near to
God, and He will draw near to you. Cleanse your hands, you sinners; and purify
your hearts, you double-minded. Humble yourselves in the sight of the Lord, and
He shall lift you up.

## Chapter 9 - Reference to the history of Christ

Reference to the history of Christ. He affirms the true birth, life,
persecution, crucifixion, death, and resurrection of Jesus Christ. For He was
truly born, and truly suffered, and truly died, and truly rose again from the
dead. And He ascended into heaven, and sits at the right hand of the Father, and
He will come again to judge the living and the dead. And His kingdom shall have
no end.

## Chapter 10 - The reality of Christ's passion

The reality of Christ's passion. Ignatius questions the purpose of his own bonds
and desire for martyrdom if Christ only "seemed to suffer." For if He only
seemed to suffer, then I only seem to be bound. But if I am truly bound, then He
truly suffered. And if He truly suffered, then I truly suffer. And if I truly
suffer, then I shall truly live. And if I truly live, then I shall truly attain
to God.

## Chapter 11 - Avoid the deadly errors of the Docetæ

Avoid the deadly errors of the Docetæ, who say that Christ only seemed to
suffer. For they are not the planting of the Father, but are the offshoots of
the devil. They are wolves in sheep's clothing, who bite secretly, against whom
you must be on your guard, inasmuch as they are men who can scarcely be cured.
There is one Physician who is possessed both of flesh and spirit; both made and
not made; God existing in flesh; true life in death; both of Mary and of God;
first possible and then impossible, even Jesus Christ our Lord.

## Chapter 12 - Continue in unity and love

Continue in unity and love. Ignatius sends greetings from Smyrna and exhorts
them to continue in harmony and prayer, refreshing the bishop. For you are the
temple of God, and you are built upon the foundation of the apostles and
prophets, Jesus Christ Himself being the chief corner stone. In whom all the
building fitly framed together grows into a holy temple in the Lord. In whom you
also are built together for a habitation of God through the Spirit.

## Chapter 13 - Conclusion

Conclusion. He sends greetings from the Smyrnæans and Ephesians, asks for
prayers for the Church in Syria, and bids them farewell, urging continued
subjection to the bishop and presbytery, and love for one another. For you are
the temple of God, and you are built upon the foundation of the apostles and
prophets, Jesus Christ Himself being the chief corner stone. In whom all the
building fitly framed together grows into a holy temple in the Lord. In whom you
also are built together for a habitation of God through the Spirit.

_**Source:** Translated by Alexander Roberts and James Donaldson. From
Ante-Nicene Fathers, Vol. 1. Edited by Alexander Roberts, James Donaldson, and
A. Cleveland Coxe. (Buffalo, NY: Christian Literature Publishing Co., 1885.)
Edited for Voice of the Fathers by Josh Peterson. Obtained from
[New Advent](https://www.newadvent.org/fathers/0106.htm)._

