---
title: The Epistle of Ignatius to the Smyrnaeans
layout: book
author: Ignatius of Antioch
permalink: authors/ignatius-of-antioch/:name
---

## Introduction

Ignatius, who is also called Theophorus, to the Church of God the most high
Father, and His beloved Son Jesus Christ, which has through mercy obtained every
kind of gift, which is filled with faith and love, and is deficient in no gift,
most worthy of God, and adorned with holiness: the Church which is at Smyrna, in
Asia, wishes abundance of happiness, through the immaculate Spirit and word of
God.

## Chapter 1 - Thanks to God for your faith

I Glorify the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, who by Him has given you
such wisdom. For I have observed that you are perfected in an immoveable faith,
as if you were nailed to the cross of our Lord Jesus Christ, both in the flesh
and in the spirit, and are established in love through the blood of Christ,
being fully persuaded, in very truth, with respect to our Lord Jesus Christ,
that He was the Son of God, “the first-born of every creature,” God the Word,
the only-begotten Son, and was of the seed of David according to the flesh, by
the Virgin Mary; was baptized by John, that all righteousness might be fulfilled
by Him; that He lived a life of holiness without sin, and was truly, under
Pontius Pilate and Herod the tetrarch, nailed to the cross for us in His flesh.
From whom we also derive our being, from His divinely-blessed passion, that He
might set up a standard for the ages, through His resurrection, to all His holy
and faithful followers, whether among Jews or Gentiles, in the one body of His
Church.

## Chapter 2 - Christ’s true passion

Now, He suffered all these things for us; and He suffered them really, and not
in appearance only, even as also He truly rose again. But not, as some of the
unbelievers, who are ashamed of the formation of man, and the cross, and death
itself, affirm, that in appearance only, and not in truth, He took a body of the
Virgin, and suffered only in appearance, forgetting, as they do, Him who said,
“The Word was made flesh;” and again, “Destroy this temple, and in three days I
will raise it up;” and once more, “If I be lifted up from the earth, I will draw
all men unto Me.” The Word therefore did dwell in flesh, for “Wisdom built
herself an house.” The Word raised up again His own temple on the third day,
when it had been destroyed by the Jews fighting against Christ. The Word, when
His flesh was lifted up, after the manner of the brazen serpent in the
wilderness, drew all men to Himself for their eternal salvation.

## Chapter 3 - Christ was possessed of a body after His resurrection

And I know that He was possessed of a body not only in His being born and
crucified, but I also know that He was so after His resurrection, and believe
that He is so now. When, for instance, He came to those who were with Peter, He
said to them, “Lay hold, handle Me, and see that I am not an incorporeal
spirit.” “For a spirit hath not flesh and bones, as you see Me have.” And He
says to Thomas, “Reach hither thy finger into the print of the nails, and reach
hither thy hand, and thrust it into My side;” and immediately they believed that
He was Christ. Wherefore Thomas also says to Him, “My Lord, and my God.” And on
this account also did they despise death, for it were too little to say,
indignities and stripes. Nor was this all; but also after He had shown Himself
to them, that He had risen indeed, and not in appearance only, He both ate and
drank with them during forty entire days. And thus was He, with the flesh,
received up in their sight unto Him that sent Him, being with that same flesh to
come again, accompanied by glory and power. For, say the holy oracles, “This
same Jesus, who is taken up from you into heaven, shall so come, in like manner
as you have seen Him go unto heaven.” But if they say that He will come at the
end of the world without a body, how shall those “see Him that pierced Him,” and
when they recognise Him, “mourn for themselves?” For incorporeal beings have
neither form nor figure, nor the aspect of an animal possessed of shape, because
their nature is in itself simple.

## Chapter 4 - Beware of these heretics

I give you these instructions, beloved, assured that you also hold the same
opinions as I do. But I guard you beforehand from these beasts in the shape of
men, from whom you must not only turn away, but even flee from them. Only you
must pray for them, if by any means they may be brought to repentance. For if
the Lord were in the body in appearance only, and were crucified in appearance
only, then am I also bound in appearance only. And why have I also surrendered
myself to death, to fire, to the sword, to the wild beasts? But, in fact, I
endure all things for Christ, not in appearance only, but in reality, that I may
suffer together with Him, while He Himself inwardly strengthens me; for of
myself I have no such ability.

## Chapter 5 - Their dangerous errors

Some have ignorantly denied Him, and advocate falsehood rather than the truth.
These persons neither have the prophecies persuaded, nor the law of Moses, nor
the Gospel even to this day, nor the sufferings we have individually endured.
For they think also the same thing regarding us. For what does it profit, if any
one commends me, but blasphemes my Lord, not owning Him to be God incarnate? He
that does not confess this, has in fact altogether denied Him, being enveloped
in death. I have not, however, thought good to write the names of such persons,
inasmuch as they are unbelievers; and far be it from me to make any mention of
them, until they repent.

## Chapter 6 - Unbelievers in the blood of Christ shall be condemned

Let no man deceive himself. Unless he believes that Christ Jesus has lived in
the flesh, and shall confess His cross and passion, and the blood which He shed
for the salvation of the world, he shall not obtain eternal life, whether he be
a king, or a priest, or a ruler, or a private person, a master or a servant, a
man or a woman. “He that is able to receive it, let him receive it.” Let no
man’s place, or dignity, or riches, puff him up; and let no man’s low condition
or poverty abase him. For the chief points are faith towards God, hope towards
Christ, the enjoyment of those good things for which we look, and love towards
God and our neighbour. For, “Thou shall love the Lord thy God with all thy
heart, and thy neighbour as thyself.” And the Lord says, “This is life eternal,
to know the only true God, and Jesus Christ whom He has sent.” And again, “A new
commandment give I unto you, that you love one another. On these two
commandments hang all the law and the prophets.” Do you, therefore, notice those
who preach other doctrines, how they affirm that the Father of Christ cannot be
known, and how they exhibit enmity and deceit in their dealings with one
another. They have no regard for love; they despise the good things we expect
hereafter; they regard present things as if they were durable; they ridicule him
that is in affliction; they laugh at him that is in bonds.

## Chapter 7 - Let us stand aloof from such heretics

They are ashamed of the cross; they mock at the passion; they make a jest of the
resurrection. They are the offspring of that spirit who is the author of all
evil, who led Adam, by means of his wife, to transgress the commandment, who
slew Abel by the hands of Cain, who fought against Job, who was the accuser of
Joshua the son of Josedech, who sought to “sift the faith” of the apostles, who
stirred up the multitude of the Jews against the Lord, who also now “works in
the children of disobedience; from whom the Lord Jesus Christ will deliver us,
who prayed that the faith of the apostles might not fail, not because He was not
able of Himself to preserve it, but because He rejoiced in the pre-eminence of
the Father. It is fitting, therefore, that you should keep aloof from such
persons, and neither in private nor in public to talk with them; but to give
heed to the law, and the prophets, and to those who have preached to you the
word of salvation. But flee from all abominable heresies, and those that cause
schisms, as the beginning of evils.

## Chapter 8 - Let nothing be done without the bishop

See that you all follow the bishop, even as Christ Jesus does the Father, and
the presbytery as you would the apostles. Do you also reverence the deacons, as
those that carry out through their office the appointment of God. Let no man do
anything connected with the Church without the bishop. Let that be deemed a
proper Eucharist, which is administered either by the bishop, or by one to whom
he has entrusted it. Wherever the bishop shall appear, there let the multitude
of the people also be; even as where Christ is, there does all the heavenly host
stand by, waiting upon Him as the Chief Captain of the Lord’s might, and the
Governor of every intelligent nature. It is not lawful without the bishop either
to baptize, or to offer, or to present sacrifice, or to celebrate a love-feast.
But that which seems good to him, is also well-pleasing to God, that everything
you do may be secure and valid.

## Chapter 9 - Honour the bishop

Moreover, it is in accordance with reason that we should return to soberness of
conduct, and, while yet we have opportunity, exercise repentance towards God.
For “in Hades there is no one who can confess his sins.” For “behold the man,
and his work is before him.” And the Scripture saith, “My son, honour thou God
and the king.” And say I, honour your God indeed, as the Author and Lord of all
things, but the bishop as the high-priest, who bears the image of God—of God, in
as much as he is a ruler, and of Christ, in his capacity of a priest. After Him,
we must also honour the king. For there is no one superior to God, or even like
to Him, among all the beings that exist. Nor is there any one in the Church
greater than the bishop, who ministers as a priest to God for the salvation of
the whole world. Nor, again, is there any one among rulers to be compared with
the king, who secures peace and good order to those over whom he rules. He who
honours the bishop shall be honoured by God, even as he that dishonours him
shall be punished by God. For if he that rises up against kings is justly held
worthy of punishment, inasmuch as he dissolves public order, of how much sorer
punishment, suppose you, shall he be thought worthy, who presumes to do anything
without the bishop, thus both destroying the Church’s unity, and throwing its
order into confusion? For the priesthood is the very highest point of all good
things among men, against which whosoever is mad enough to strive, dishonours
not man, but God, and Christ Jesus, the First-born, and the only High Priest, by
nature, of the Father. Let all things therefore be done by you with good order
in Christ. Let the laity be subject to the deacons; the deacons to the
presbyters; the presbyters to the bishop; the bishop to Christ, even as He is to
the Father. As you, brethren, have refreshed me, so will Jesus Christ refresh
you. You have loved me when absent, as well as when present. God will recompense
you, for whose sake you have shown such kindness towards His prisoner. For even
if I am not worthy of it, yet your zeal to help me is an admirable thing. For
“he who honours a prophet in the name of a prophet, shall receive a prophet’s
reward.” It is manifest also, that he who honours a prisoner of Jesus Christ
shall receive the reward of the martyrs.

## Chapter 10 - My soul is for you

My soul is for you, and I rejoice greatly in your faith, and in your love, and
in your patience, and in your long-suffering. For I know that you are not puffed
up, but are humble, and that you are not ashamed to confess your faith in
Christ, but are ready to suffer for His name. I exhort you, therefore, to be of
one mind, and to be subject to the bishop, and to the presbytery, as to the
apostles of Jesus Christ, who is our hope, in whom, if we live, we shall be
found in Him. It is meet also that the deacons, the ministers of the mysteries
of Jesus Christ, should in all things be pleasing to all. For they are not the
ministers of meat and drink, but of the Church of God. They are bound,
therefore, to avoid all grounds of accusation against them, as they would do
fire.

## Chapter 11 - Acknowledgment of their kindness

You have done well in receiving Philo, and Gaius, and Agathopus, who, being the
servants of Christ, have followed me for the sake of God, and who greatly bless
the Lord in your behalf, because you have in every way refreshed them. None of
those things which you have done to them shall be passed by without being
reckoned unto you. “The Lord grant” to you “that you may find mercy of the Lord
in that day!” May my spirit be for you, and my bonds, which you have not
despised or been ashamed of. Wherefore, neither shall Jesus Christ, our perfect
hope, be ashamed of you.

_**Source:** Translated by Alexander Roberts and James Donaldson. From
Ante-Nicene Fathers, Vol. 1. Edited by Alexander Roberts, James Donaldson, and
A. Cleveland Coxe. (Buffalo, NY: Christian Literature Publishing Co., 1885.)
Edited for Voice of the Fathers by Josh Peterson. Obtained from
[Christian Classics Ethereal Library](https://ccel.org/ccel/ignatius_antioch/epistles_of_ignatius/anf01.v.vii.html)._
