---
title: The Epistle of Ignatius to the Romans
layout: book
author: Ignatius of Antioch
permalink: authors/ignatius-of-antioch/:name
---

## Introduction

Ignatius, who is also called Theophorus, to the Church which has obtained mercy,
through the majesty of the Most High God the Father, and of Jesus Christ, His
only-begotten Son; the Church which is sanctified and enlightened by the will of
God, who formed all things that are according to the faith and love of Jesus
Christ, our God and Saviour; the Church which presides in the place of the
region of the Romans, and which is worthy of God, worthy of honour, worthy of
the highest happiness, worthy of praise, worthy of credit, worthy of being
deemed holy, and which presides over love, is named from Christ, and from the
Father, and is possessed of the Spirit, which I also salute in the name of
Almighty God, and of Jesus Christ His Son: to those who are united, both
according to the flesh and spirit, to every one of His commandments, who are
filled inseparably with all the grace of God, and are purified from every
strange taint, I wish abundance of happiness unblameably, in God, even the
Father, and our Lord Jesus Christ.

## Chapter 1 - As a prisoner, I hope to see you

Through prayer to God I have obtained the privilege of seeing your most worthy
faces, even as I earnestly begged might be granted me; for as a prisoner in
Christ Jesus I hope to salute you, if indeed it be the will of God that I be
thought worthy of attaining unto the end. For the beginning has been well
ordered, if I may obtain grace to cling to my lot without hindrance unto the
end. For I am afraid of your love, lest it should do me an injury. For it is
easy for you to accomplish what you please; but it is difficult for me to attain
to God, if you do not spare me, under the pretence of carnal affection.

## Chapter 2 - Do not hinder my martyrdom

For it is not my desire that you should please men, but God, even as also you do
please Him. For neither shall I ever hereafter have such an opportunity of
attaining to God; nor will you, if you shall now be silent, ever be entitled to
the honour of a better work. For if you are silent concerning me, I shall become
God’s; but if you show your love to my flesh, I shall again have to run my race.
Pray, then, do not seek to confer any greater favour upon me than that I be
sacrificed to God, while the altar is still prepared; that, being gathered
together in love, you may sing praise to the Father, through Christ Jesus, that
God has deemed me, the bishop of Syria, worthy to be sent for from the east unto
the west, and to become a martyr in behalf of His own precious sufferings, so as
to pass from the world to God, that I may rise again unto Him.

## Chapter 3 - I am the wheat of God

you have never envied any one; you have taught others. Now I desire that those
things may be confirmed by your conduct, which in your instructions you enjoin
on others. Only request in my behalf both inward and outward strength, that I
may not only speak, but truly will, so that I may not merely be called a
Christian, but really found to be one. For if I be truly found a Christian, I
may also be called one, and be then deemed faithful, when I shall no longer
appear to the world. Nothing visible is eternal. “For the things which are seen
are temporal, but the things which are not seen are eternal.” The Christian is
not the result of persuasion, but of power. When he is hated by the world, he is
beloved of God. For says the Scripture, “If you were of this world, the world
would love its own; but now you are not of the world, but I have chosen you out
of it: continue in fellowship with me.”

## Chapter 4 - I am not worthy to be called a disciple

I write to all the Churches, and impress on them all, that I shall willingly die
for God, unless you hinder me. I beseech of you not to show an unseasonable
good-will towards me. Suffer me to become food for the wild beasts, through
whose instrumentality it will be granted me to attain to God. I am the wheat of
God, and am ground by the teeth of the wild beasts, that I may be found the pure
bread of God. Rather entice the wild beasts, that they may become my tomb, and
may leave nothing of my body; so that when I have fallen asleep in death, I may
not be found troublesome to any one. Then shall I be a true disciple of Jesus
Christ, when the world shall not see so much as my body. Entreat the Lord for
me, that by these instruments I may be found a sacrifice to God. I do not, as
Peter and Paul, issue commandments unto you. They were apostles of Jesus Christ,
but I am the very least of believers: they were free, as the servants of God;
while I am, even until now, a servant. But when I suffer, I shall be the
freed-man of Jesus Christ, and shall rise again emancipated in Him. And now,
being in bonds for Him, I learn not to desire anything worldly or vain.

## Chapter 5 - I am writing to you from Smyrna

From Syria even unto Rome I fight with beasts, both by land and sea, both by
night and day, being bound to ten leopards, I mean a band of soldiers, who, even
when they receive benefits, show themselves all the worse. But I am the more
instructed by their injuries to act as a disciple of Christ; “yet am I not
thereby justified.” May I enjoy the wild beasts that are prepared for me; and I
pray that they may be found eager to rush upon me, which also I will entice to
devour me speedily, and not deal with me as with some, whom, out of fear, they
have not touched. But if they be unwilling to assail me, I will compel them to
do so. Pardon me in this I know what is for my benefit. Now I begin to be a
disciple, and have no desire after anything visible or invisible, that I may
attain to Jesus Christ. Let fire and the cross; let the crowds of wild beasts;
let breakings, tearings, and separations of bones; let cutting off of members;
let bruising to pieces of the whole body; and let the very torment of the devil
come upon me: only let me attain to Jesus Christ.

## Chapter 6 - By death I shall attain true life

All the ends of the world, and all the kingdoms of this earth, shall profit me
nothing. It is better for me to die for the sake of Jesus Christ, than to reign
over all the ends of the earth. “For what is a man profited, if he gain the
whole world, but lose his own soul?” I long after the Lord, the Son of the true
God and Father, even Jesus Christ. Him I seek, who died for us and rose again.
Pardon me, brethren: do not hinder me in attaining to life; for Jesus is the
life of believers. Do not wish to keep me in a state of death, for life without
Christ is death. While I desire to belong to God, do not you give me over to the
world. Suffer me to obtain pure light: when I have gone thither, I shall indeed
be a man of God. Permit me to be an imitator of the passion of Christ, my God.
If any one has Him within himself, let him consider what I desire, and let him
have sympathy with me, as knowing how I am straitened.

## Chapter 7 - Reason of desiring to die

The prince of this world would fain carry me away, and corrupt my disposition
towards God. Let none of you, therefore, who are in Rome help him; rather be you
on my side, that is, on the side of God. Do not speak of Jesus Christ, and yet
prefer this world to Him. Let not envy find a dwelling-place among you; nor even
should I, when present with you, exhort you to it, be you persuaded, but rather
give credit to those things which I now write to you. For though I am alive
while I write to you, yet I am eager to die for the sake of Christ. My love has
been crucified, and there is no fire in me that loves anything; but there is
living water springing up in me, and which says to me inwardly, Come to the
Father. I have no delight in corruptible food, nor in the pleasures of this
life. I desire the bread of God, the heavenly bread, the bread of life, which is
the flesh of Jesus Christ, the Son of God, who became afterwards of the seed of
David and Abraham; and I desire the drink, namely His blood, which is
incorruptible love and eternal life.

## Chapter 8 - Be you favourable to me

I no longer wish to live after the manner of men, and my desire shall be
fulfilled if you consent. “I am crucified with Christ: nevertheless I live; yet
no longer I, since Christ liveth in me.” I entreat you in this brief letter: do
not refuse me; believe me that I love Jesus, who was delivered to death for my
sake. “What shall I render to the Lord for all His benefits towards me?” Now
God, even the Father, and the Lord Jesus Christ, shall reveal these things to
you, so that you shall know that I speak truly. And do you pray along with me,
that I may attain my aim in the Holy Spirit. I have not written to you according
to the flesh, but according to the will of God. If I shall suffer, you have
loved me; but if I am rejected, you have hated me.

## Chapter 9 - Pray for the church in Syria

Remember in your prayers the Church which is in Syria, which, instead of me, has
now for its shepherd the Lord, who says, “I am the good Shepherd.” And He alone
will oversee it, as well as your love towards Him. But as for me, I am ashamed
to be counted one of them; for I am not worthy, as being the very last of them,
and one born out of due time. But I have obtained mercy to be somebody, if I
shall attain to God. My spirit salutes you, and the love of the Churches which
have received me in the name of Jesus Christ, and not as a mere passer-by. For
even those Churches which were not near to me in the way, have brought me
forward, city by city.

## Chapter 10 - Conclusion

Now I write these things to you from Smyrna by the Ephesians, who are deservedly
most happy. There is also with me, along with many others, Crocus, one dearly
beloved by me. As to those who have gone before me from Syria to Rome for the
glory of God, I believe that you are acquainted with them; to whom, then, do you
make known that I am at hand. For they are all worthy, both of God and of you;
and it is becoming that you should refresh them in all things. I have written
these things unto you, on the day before the ninth of the Kalends of September
(that is, on the twenty-third day of August). Fare you well to the end, in the
patience of Jesus Christ. Amen.

_**Source:** Translated by Alexander Roberts and James Donaldson. From
Ante-Nicene Fathers, Vol. 1. Edited by Alexander Roberts, James Donaldson, and
A. Cleveland Coxe. (Buffalo, NY: Christian Literature Publishing Co., 1885.)
Edited for Voice of the Fathers by Josh Peterson. Obtained from New
[Christian Classics Ethereal Library](https://ccel.org/ccel/ignatius_antioch/epistles_of_ignatius/anf01.v.v.html)._
