---
title: The Epistle of Ignatius to Polycarp
layout: book
author: Ignatius of Antioch
permalink: authors/ignatius-of-antioch/:name
---

## Introduction

Ignatius, bishop of Antioch, and a witness for Jesus Christ, to Polycarp, Bishop
of the Church of the Smyrnæans, or rather, who has, as his own bishop, God the
Father, and Jesus Christ: wishes abundance of happiness.

## Chapter 1 - Commendation and exhortation

Having obtained good proof that your mind is fixed in God as upon an immovable
rock, I loudly glorify His name that I have been thought worthy to behold your
blameless face, which may I ever enjoy in God! I entreat you, by the grace with
which you are clothed, to press forward in your course, and to exhort all that
they may be saved. Maintain your position with all care, both in the flesh and
spirit. Have a regard to preserve unity, than which nothing is better. Bear with
all even as the Lord does with you. Support all in love, as also you do. Give
yourself to prayer without ceasing. Implore additional understanding to what you
already have. Be watchful, possessing a sleepless spirit. Speak to every man
separately, as God enables you. Bear the infirmities of all, as being a perfect
athlete in the Christian life, even as does the Lord of all. For says the
Scripture, “He Himself took our infirmities, and bore our sicknesses.” Where the
labor is great, the gain is all the more.

## Chapter 2 - Exhortations

If you love the good disciples, no thanks are due to you on that account; but
rather seek by meekness to subdue the more troublesome. Every kind of wound is
not healed with the same plaster. Mitigate violent attacks of disease by gentle
applications. Be in all things “wise as a serpent, and harmless always as a
dove.” For this purpose you are composed of both soul and body, art both fleshly
and spiritual, that you may correct those evils that present themselves visibly
before you; and as respects those that are not seen, may pray that these should
be revealed to you, so that you may be wanting in nothing, but may abound in
every gift. The times call upon you to pray. For as the wind aids the pilot of a
ship, and as havens are advantageous for safety to a tempest-tossed vessel, so
is also prayer to you, in order that you may attain to God. Be sober as an
athlete of God, whose will is immortality and eternal life; of which you are
also persuaded. In all things may my soul be for thine, and my bonds also, which
you hast loved.

## Chapter 3 - Exhortations

Let not those who seem worthy of credit, but teach strange doctrines, fill you
with apprehension. Stand firm, as does an anvil which is beaten. It is the part
of a noble athlete to be wounded, and yet to conquer. And especially we ought to
bear all things for the sake of God, that He also may bear with us, and bring us
into His kingdom. Add more and more to your diligence; run your race with
increasing energy; weigh carefully the times. Whilst you are here, be a
conqueror; for here is the course, and there are the crowns. Look for Christ,
the Son of God; who was before time, yet appeared in time; who was invisible by
nature, yet visible in the flesh; who was impalpable, and could not be touched,
as being without a body, but for our sakes became such, might be touched and
handled in the body; who was impassible as God, but became passable for our
sakes as man; and who in every kind of way suffered for our sakes.

## Chapter 4 - Exhortations

Let not the widows be neglected. Be you, after the Lord, their protector and
friend. Let nothing be done without your consent; neither do you anything
without the approval of God, which indeed you does not. Be you steadfast. Let
your assembling together be of frequent occurrence: seek after all by name. Do
not despise either male or female slaves, yet neither let them be puffed up with
conceit, but rather let them submit themselves the more, for the glory of God,
that they may obtain from God a better liberty. Let them not wish to be set free
from slavery at the public expense, that they be not found slaves to their own
desires.

## Chapter 5 - The duties of husbands and wives

Flee evil arts; but all the more discourse in public regarding them. Speak to my
sisters, that they love the Lord, and be satisfied with their husbands both in
the flesh and spirit. In like manner also, exhort my brethren, in the name of
Jesus Christ, that they love their wives, even as the Lord the Church. If any
one can continue in a state of purity, to the honor of the flesh of the Lord,
let him so remain without boasting. If he shall boast, he is undone; and if he
seeks to be more prominent than the bishop, he is ruined. But it becomes both
men and women who marry, to form their union with the approval of the bishop,
that their marriage may be according to the Lord, and not after their own lust.
Let all things be done to the honor of God.

## Chapter 6 - The duties of the Christian flock

Give you heed to the bishop, that God also may give heed to you. My soul be for
theirs that are submissive to the bishop, to the presbytery, and to the deacons:
may I have my portion with them from God! Labor together with one another;
strive in company together; run together; suffer together; sleep together; and
awake together, as the stewards, and associates, and servants of God. Please you
Him under whom you fight, and from whom you shall receive your wages. Let none
of you be found a deserter. Let your baptism endure as your arms; your faith as
your helmet; your love as your spear; your patience as a complete panoply. Let
your works be the charge assigned to you, that you may obtain for them a most
worthy recompense. Be long-suffering, therefore, with one another, in meekness,
and God shall be so with you. May I have joy of you for ever!

## Chapter 7 - Request that Polycarp would send a messenger to Antioch

Seeing that the Church which is at Antioch in Syria is, as report has informed
me, at peace, through your prayers, I also am the more encouraged, resting
without anxiety in God, if indeed by means of suffering I may attain to God, so
that, through your prayers, I may be found a disciple of Christ. It is fitting,
O Polycarp, most blessed in God, to assemble a very solemn council, and to elect
one whom you greatly love, and know to be a man of activity, who may be
designated the messenger of God; and to bestow on him the honor of going into
Syria, so that, going into Syria, he may glorify your ever active love to the
praise of God. A Christian has not power over himself, but must always be ready
for the service of God. Now, this work is both God’s and yours, when you shall
have completed it. For I trust that, through grace, you are prepared for every
good work pertaining to God. Knowing your energetic love of the truth, I have
exhorted you by this brief Epistle.

## Chapter 8 - Let other churches also send to Antioch

Inasmuch, therefore, as I have not been able to write to all Churches, because I
must suddenly sail from Troas to Neapolis, as the will of the emperor enjoins, I
beg that you, as being acquainted with the purpose of God, wilt write to the
adjacent Churches, that they also may act in like manner, such as are able to do
so sending messenger, and the others transmitting letters through those persons
who are sent by you, that you may be glorified by a work which shall be
remembered for ever, as indeed you are worthy to be. I salute all by name, and
in particular the wife of Epitropus, with all her house and children. I salute
Attalus, my beloved. I salute him who shall be deemed worthy to go (from you)
into Syria. Grace shall be with him for ever, and with Polycarp that sends him.
I pray for your happiness for ever in our God, Jesus Christ, by whom continue
you in the unity and under the protection of God. I salute Alce, my dearly
beloved. Amen. Grace be with you. Fare you well in the Lord.

_**Source:** Translated by Alexander Roberts and James Donaldson. From
Ante-Nicene Fathers, Vol. 1. Edited by Alexander Roberts, James Donaldson, and
A. Cleveland Coxe. (Buffalo, NY: Christian Literature Publishing Co., 1885.)
Edited for Voice of the Fathers by Josh Peterson. Obtained from
[Christian Classics Ethereal Library](https://ccel.org/ccel/ignatius_antioch/epistles_of_ignatius/anf.v.ii.html)._
